ANS 1	The JDBC API is a Java API that can access any kind of tabular data, especially data stored in a relational database. JDBC helps you to write Java applications that manage these three programming activities: Connect to a data source, like a database. Send queries and update statements to the database.

ANS 2	Import the Packages.
Load the drivers using the forName() method.
Register the drivers using DriverManager.
Establish a connection using the Connection class object.
Create a statement.
Execute the query.
Close the connections.

ANS 3 	There are different types of statements that are used in JDBC as follows:

Create Statement
Prepared Statement
Callable Statement

ANS 4	Servlet technology is robust and scalable because of java language. Before Servlet, CGI (Common Gateway Interface) scripting language was common as a server-side programming language. However, there were many disadvantages to this technology.

AN 5	The web container maintains the life cycle of a servlet instance. Let's see the life cycle of the servlet:

Servlet class is loaded.
Servlet instance is created.
init method is invoked.
service method is invoked.
destroy method is invoked.

ANS 6	Difference between SendRedirect method and RequestDispatcher forward method. The forward () method of the RequestDispatcher works on the server-side, while the SendRedirect() method works on the client-side. Request dispatcher works on the request object, while SendRedirect() works on the response object.

ANS 7	The doGet method is called by the server (via the service method) when the client requests a GET request. It is used to retrieve information from the server. The doPost method is called by the server (via the service method) when the client requests a POST request. It is used to send information to the server.

ANS 8	MVC stands for Model View and Controller. It is a design pattern that separates the business logic, presentation logic and data.
Controller acts as an interface between View and Model. ...
Model represents the state of the application i.e. data. ...
View represents the presentaion i.e. UI(User Interface).

ANS 9	Better performance: because it creates a thread for each request, not process.
Portability: because it uses Java language.
Robust: JVM manages Servlets, so we don't need to worry about the memory leak, garbage collection, etc.
Secure: because it uses java language.

ANS 10	It is very difficult for developers to perform database connectivity in JSP.
As the JSP is compiled on the server, it is not memory and time-efficient.
It is hard to track errors in JSP files because they are an extension to Servlets. ...
As JSP is an HTML file, it doesn't provide many features.